CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

# Code of Conduct

## When Something Happens

If you see a Code of Conduct violation, follow these steps:

1. Let the person know that what they did is not appropriate and ask them to
stop and/or edit their message(s) or commits.
2. That person should immediately stop the behavior and correct the issue.
3. If this doesn’t happen, or if you're uncomfortable speaking up, [contact the
moderators](#contacting-moderators).
4. As soon as available, a moderator will look into the issue, and take [further
action (see below)](#further-moderation), starting with a warning, then
temporary block, then long-term repo or organization ban.

When reporting, please include any relevant details, links, screenshots,
context, or other information that may be used to better understand and resolve
the situation.

**The moderation team will prioritize the well-being and comfort of the
recipients of the violation over the comfort of the violator.** See [some
examples below](#moderation-examples).

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers of this project pledge to making participation in
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, technical preferences, nationality, personal appearance, race,
religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

  * Using welcoming and inclusive language.
  * Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences.
  * Gracefully accepting constructive feedback.
  * Focusing on what is best for the community.
  * Showing empathy and kindness towards other community members.
  * Encouraging and raising up your peers in the project so you can all bask in
    hacks and glory.

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

  * The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
    advances, including when simulated online. The only exception to sexual
    topics is channels/spaces specifically for topics of sexual identity.
  * Casual mention of slavery or indentured servitude and/or false comparisons
    of one's occupation or situation to slavery. Please consider using or asking
    about alternate terminology when referring to such metaphors in technology.
  * Making light of/making mocking comments about trigger warnings and content
    warnings.
  * Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks.
  * Public or private harassment, deliberate intimidation, or threats.
  * Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
    address, without explicit permission. This includes any sort of "outing" of
    any aspect of someone's identity without their consent.
  * Publishing private screenshots or quotes of interactions in the context of
    this project without all quoted users' *explicit* consent.
  * Publishing of private communication that doesn't have to do with reporting
    harrassment.
  * Any of the above even when [presented as "ironic" or
    "joking"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hipster_racism).
  * Any attempt to present "reverse-ism" versions of the above as violations.
    Examples of reverse-isms are "reverse racism", "reverse sexism",
    "heterophobia", and "cisphobia".
  * Unsolicited explanations under the assumption that someone doesn't already
    know it. Ask before you teach! Don't assume what people's knowledge gaps
    are.
  * [Feigning or exaggerating
    surprise](https://www.recurse.com/manual#no-feigned-surprise) when someone
    admits to not knowing something.
  * "[Well-actuallies](https://www.recurse.com/manual#no-well-actuallys)"
  * Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
    professional or community setting.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within spaces involving this project and in
other spaces involving community members. This includes the repository, its Pull
Requests and Issue tracker, its Twitter community, private email communications
in the context of the project, and any events where members of the project are
participating, as well as adjacent communities and venues affecting the
project's members.

Depending on the violation, the moderators may decide that violations of this
code of conduct that have happened outside of the scope of the community may
deem an individual unwelcome, and take appropriate action to maintain the
comfort and safety of its members.

### Other Community Standards

As a project on GitHub, this project is additionally covered by the [GitHub
Community
Guidelines](https://help.github.com/articles/github-community-guidelines/).

Enforcement of those guidelines after violations overlapping with the above are
the responsibility of the entities, and moderation may happen in any or all of
the services/communities.

## Moderator Moderation Process

Once the moderators get involved, they will follow a documented series of steps
and do their best to preserve the well-being of project members. This section
covers actual concrete steps.

### Contacting Moderators

Official moderation is done by the Ayo.js Moderation Team.

* Ping
  [`@ayojs/moderation`](https://github.com/orgs/ayojs/teams/moderation/members)
  on the GitHub issue.
* Ping `@moderation` in the [Ayo.js Discord](https://discord.gg/hCgptwH).
* Privately email any member of [the moderation
  team](https://github.com/ayojs/ayo#moderation-team).

Messages regarding moderation issues will be treated with care and appropriate
confidentiality.

### Further Moderation

If you've already followed the [initial moderation
steps](#when-something-happens), these are the steps moderators will take for
further moderation, as needed:

  1. Repeat the request to stop.
  2. If the person doubles down, they will have offending messages removed or
  edited by a moderator and be given an official warning. The PR or Issue may be
  locked.
  3. If the behavior continues or is repeated later, the person will be blocked
  from participating for 24 hours.
  4. If the behavior continues or is repeated after the temporary block, a
  long-term (6-12mo) ban will be used.

On top of this, moderators may remove any offending messages, images,
contributions, etc, as they deem necessary. When editing messages, please put
the original message behind a `<details>` tag, with an appropriate `<summary>`
instead of simply editing in place. This will allow context to remain during
conversations even when something has been moderated.

Moderators reserve full rights to skip any of these steps, at their discretion,
if the violation is considered to be a serious and/or immediate threat to the
health and well-being of members of the community. These include any threats,
serious physical or verbal attacks, and other such behavior that would be
completely unacceptable in any social setting that puts our members at risk.

Members expelled from events or venues with any sort of paid attendance will not
be refunded.

### Who Watches the Watchers?

Moderators and other leaders who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in
good faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership. These may include anything from removal
from the moderation team to a permanent ban from the community.

Additionally, as a project hosted on GitHub, [its own Codes of Conduct may be
applied against moderators of this project](#other-community-standards),
externally of this project's procedures.

### Moderation Examples

#### The Best Case

The vast majority of situations work out like this. This interaction is common,
and generally positive.

> Alex: "Yeah I used X and it was really crazy!"

> Patt (not a moderator!): "Hey, could you not use that word? What about
'ridiculous' instead?"

> Alex: "oh sorry, sure." -> edits old comment to say "it was really confusing!"

#### The Moderator Case

Sometimes, though, you need to get moderators involved. Moderators will do their
best to resolve conflicts, but people who were harmed by something **will take
priority**.

> Patt: "Honestly, sometimes I just really hate using $library and anyone who
uses it probably sucks at their job."

> Alex: "Whoa there, could you dial it back a bit? There's a CoC thing about
attacking folks' tech use like that."

> Patt: "I'm not attacking anyone, what's your problem?"

> Alex: "@ayojs/moderation hey uh. Can someone look at this issue? Patt is getting a bit aggro. I tried to nudge them about it, but nope."

> TheModerator: (on issue) "Hey Patt, moderator here. Could you tone it down?
This sort of attack is really not okay in this space."

> Patt: "Leave me alone I haven't said anything bad wtf is wrong with you."

> TheModerator: (deletes user's comment), "@patt I mean it. Please refer to the
CoC over at (URL to this CoC) if you have questions, but you can consider this
an actual warning. I'd appreciate it if you reworded your messages in this
thread, since they made folks there uncomfortable. Let's try and be kind, yeah?"

> Patt: "@themoderator Okay sorry. I'm just frustrated and I'm kinda burnt out
and I guess I got carried away. I'll DM Alex a note apologizing and edit my
messages. Sorry for the trouble."

> TheModerator: "@patt Thanks for that. I hear you on the stress. Burnout sucks :/.
Have a good one!"

#### The Nope Case

> PepeTheFrog🐸: "Hi, I am a literal actual nazi and I think white supremacists
are quite fashionable."

> Patt: "NOOOOPE. OH NOPE NOPE."

> Alex: "JFC NO. NOPE. @themoderator NOPE NOPE LOOK HERE"

> TheModerator: "👀 Nope. NOPE NOPE NOPE. 🔥"

> PepeTheFrog🐸 has been banned from all organization or user repositories
belonging to TheModerator.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct was generated initially using [WeAllJS Code of Conduct
Generator](https://npm.im/weallbehave), which is based on the [WeAllJS Code of
Conduct](https://wealljs.org/code-of-conduct), which is itself based on
[Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org), version 1.4, available
at
[http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4),
and the LGBTQ in Technology Slack [Code of
Conduct](http://lgbtq.technology/coc.html).

Commit message:

doc: add RFC and CoC changes for Moderation Log (#83)
[ci skip]

PR-URL: https://github.com/ayojs/ayo/pull/83
Reviewed-By: Jan Lehnardt <jan@apache.org>
Reviewed-By: Stephen Belanger <admin@stephenbelanger.com>
Reviewed-By: James Butler <james.butler@sandfox.co.uk>
Reviewed-By: Anna Henningsen <anna@addaleax.net>
Reviewed-By: Alex <alex@dytry.ch>
Reviewed-By: <agentantelope+github@gmail.com>
Reviewed-By: olivia <olivia@fastmail.com>
Reviewed-By: srilq <git@srilq.email>
Reviewed-By: Scott Trinh <scott@scotttrinh.com>

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

# Code of Conduct

## When Something Happens

If you see a Code of Conduct violation, follow these steps:

1. Let the person know that what they did is not appropriate and ask them to
stop and/or edit their message(s) or commits.
2. That person should immediately stop the behavior and correct the issue.
3. If this doesn’t happen, or if you're uncomfortable speaking up, [contact the
moderators](#contacting-moderators).
4. As soon as available, a moderator will look into the issue, and take [further
action (see below)](#further-moderation), starting with a warning, then
temporary block, then long-term repo or organization ban.

When reporting, please include any relevant details, links, screenshots,
context, or other information that may be used to better understand and resolve
the situation.

**The moderation team will prioritize the well-being and comfort of the
recipients of the violation over the comfort of the violator.** See [some
examples below](#moderation-examples). Note that the moderation team [tracks
basic details about moderation actions](#moderation-log) in the interest of
transparency.

## Our Pledge

In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as
contributors and maintainers of this project pledge to making participation in
our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body
size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of
experience, technical preferences, nationality, personal appearance, race,
religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

## Our Standards

Examples of behavior that contributes to creating a positive environment
include:

  * Using welcoming and inclusive language.
  * Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences.
  * Gracefully accepting constructive feedback.
  * Focusing on what is best for the community.
  * Showing empathy and kindness towards other community members.
  * Encouraging and raising up your peers in the project so you can all bask in
    hacks and glory.

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

  * The use of sexualized language or imagery and unwelcome sexual attention or
    advances, including when simulated online. The only exception to sexual
    topics is channels/spaces specifically for topics of sexual identity.
  * Casual mention of slavery or indentured servitude and/or false comparisons
    of one's occupation or situation to slavery. Please consider using or asking
    about alternate terminology when referring to such metaphors in technology.
  * Making light of/making mocking comments about trigger warnings and content
    warnings.
  * Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks.
  * Public or private harassment, deliberate intimidation, or threats.
  * Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic
    address, without explicit permission. This includes any sort of "outing" of
    any aspect of someone's identity without their consent.
  * Publishing private screenshots or quotes of interactions in the context of
    this project without all quoted users' *explicit* consent.
  * Publishing of private communication that doesn't have to do with reporting
    harrassment.
  * Any of the above even when [presented as "ironic" or
    "joking"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hipster_racism).
  * Any attempt to present "reverse-ism" versions of the above as violations.
    Examples of reverse-isms are "reverse racism", "reverse sexism",
    "heterophobia", and "cisphobia".
  * Unsolicited explanations under the assumption that someone doesn't already
    know it. Ask before you teach! Don't assume what people's knowledge gaps
    are.
  * [Feigning or exaggerating
    surprise](https://www.recurse.com/manual#no-feigned-surprise) when someone
    admits to not knowing something.
  * "[Well-actuallies](https://www.recurse.com/manual#no-well-actuallys)"
  * Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a
    professional or community setting.

## Scope

This Code of Conduct applies both within spaces involving this project and in
other spaces involving community members. This includes the repository, its Pull
Requests and Issue tracker, its Twitter community, private email communications
in the context of the project, and any events where members of the project are
participating, as well as adjacent communities and venues affecting the
project's members.

Depending on the violation, the moderators may decide that violations of this
code of conduct that have happened outside of the scope of the community may
deem an individual unwelcome, and take appropriate action to maintain the
comfort and safety of its members.

### Other Community Standards

As a project on GitHub, this project is additionally covered by the [GitHub
Community
Guidelines](https://help.github.com/articles/github-community-guidelines/).

Enforcement of those guidelines after violations overlapping with the above are
the responsibility of the entities, and moderation may happen in any or all of
the services/communities.

## Moderator Moderation Process

Once the moderators get involved, they will follow a documented series of steps
and do their best to preserve the well-being of project members. This section
covers actual concrete steps.

### Contacting Moderators

Official moderation is done by the Ayo.js Moderation Team.

* Ping
  [`@ayojs/moderation`](https://github.com/orgs/ayojs/teams/moderation/members)
  on the GitHub issue.
* Ping `@moderation` in the [Ayo.js Discord](https://discord.gg/hCgptwH).
* Privately email any member of [the moderation
  team](https://github.com/ayojs/ayo#moderation-team).

Messages regarding moderation issues will be treated with care and appropriate
confidentiality.

### Further Moderation

If you've already followed the [initial moderation
steps](#when-something-happens), these are the steps moderators will take for
further moderation, as needed:

  1. Repeat the request to stop.
  2. If the person doubles down, they will have offending messages removed or
  edited by a moderator and be given an official warning. The PR or Issue may be
  locked.
  3. If the behavior continues or is repeated later, the person will be blocked
  from participating for 24 hours.
  4. If the behavior continues or is repeated after the temporary block, a
  long-term (6-12mo) ban will be used.

On top of this, moderators may remove any offending messages, images,
contributions, etc, as they deem necessary. When editing messages, please put
the original message behind a `<details>` tag, with an appropriate `<summary>`
instead of simply editing in place. This will allow context to remain during
conversations even when something has been moderated.

Moderators reserve full rights to skip any of these steps, at their discretion,
if the violation is considered to be a serious and/or immediate threat to the
health and well-being of members of the community. These include any threats,
serious physical or verbal attacks, and other such behavior that would be
completely unacceptable in any social setting that puts our members at risk.

Members expelled from events or venues with any sort of paid attendance will not
be refunded.

### <a name="moderation-log"></a> Public Records of Moderation Actions

Any events or situations where moderators have taken action must be recorded in
[the Ayo.js public Moderation
Log](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-I4miSFFLEeJpI6N7BYKe_0OKiZRSiuIEqjRvDglPds/edit#gid=0)
in accordance with the policies laid out in the [Moderation Log
RFC](rfcs/moderation-log.md). Please refer to that RFC for details on log
handling, including requesting changes to the public record.

### Who Watches the Watchers?

Moderators and other leaders who do not follow or enforce the Code of Conduct in
good faith may face temporary or permanent repercussions as determined by other
members of the project's leadership. These may include anything from removal
from the moderation team to a permanent ban from the community.

Additionally, as a project hosted on GitHub, [its own Codes of Conduct may be
applied against moderators of this project](#other-community-standards),
externally of this project's procedures.

### Moderation Examples

#### The Best Case

The vast majority of situations work out like this. This interaction is common,
and generally positive.

> Alex: "Yeah I used X and it was really crazy!"

> Patt (not a moderator!): "Hey, could you not use that word? What about
'ridiculous' instead?"

> Alex: "oh sorry, sure." -> edits old comment to say "it was really confusing!"

#### The Moderator Case

Sometimes, though, you need to get moderators involved. Moderators will do their
best to resolve conflicts, but people who were harmed by something **will take
priority**.

> Patt: "Honestly, sometimes I just really hate using $library and anyone who
uses it probably sucks at their job."

> Alex: "Whoa there, could you dial it back a bit? There's a CoC thing about
attacking folks' tech use like that."

> Patt: "I'm not attacking anyone, what's your problem?"

> Alex: "@ayojs/moderation hey uh. Can someone look at this issue? Patt is getting a bit aggro. I tried to nudge them about it, but nope."

> TheModerator: (on issue) "Hey Patt, moderator here. Could you tone it down?
This sort of attack is really not okay in this space."

> Patt: "Leave me alone I haven't said anything bad wtf is wrong with you."

> TheModerator: (deletes user's comment), "@patt I mean it. Please refer to the
CoC over at (URL to this CoC) if you have questions, but you can consider this
an actual warning. I'd appreciate it if you reworded your messages in this
thread, since they made folks there uncomfortable. Let's try and be kind, yeah?"

> Patt: "@themoderator Okay sorry. I'm just frustrated and I'm kinda burnt out
and I guess I got carried away. I'll DM Alex a note apologizing and edit my
messages. Sorry for the trouble."

> TheModerator: "@patt Thanks for that. I hear you on the stress. Burnout sucks :/.
Have a good one!"

#### The Nope Case

> PepeTheFrog🐸: "Hi, I am a literal actual nazi and I think white supremacists
are quite fashionable."

> Patt: "NOOOOPE. OH NOPE NOPE."

> Alex: "JFC NO. NOPE. @themoderator NOPE NOPE LOOK HERE"

> TheModerator: "👀 Nope. NOPE NOPE NOPE. 🔥"

> PepeTheFrog🐸 has been banned from all organization or user repositories
belonging to TheModerator.

## Attribution

This Code of Conduct was generated initially using [WeAllJS Code of Conduct
Generator](https://npm.im/weallbehave), which is based on the [WeAllJS Code of
Conduct](https://wealljs.org/code-of-conduct), which is itself based on
[Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org), version 1.4, available
at
[http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4](http://contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4),
and the LGBTQ in Technology Slack [Code of
Conduct](http://lgbtq.technology/coc.html).
